All right, welcome to Apple Solutions for
Science at WWDC for 2004.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
Clustering.
And, you know,
clustering is just exploding
in the scientific community.
There's a move from supercomputer
custom architectures to clusters,
fairly inexpensive one-use systems.
Xserve – we actually offer a
special configuration of Xserve
specifically for building clusters.
So it's sort of a stripped-down version,
a little bit less expensive,
and the licensing is sort of
tuned for building clusters.
I forget exactly what we call it,
but it's on the web page.
Combine that with inexpensive
storage with Xserve RAID.
We have a product.
[Transcript missing]
Example of the power of
taking Unix with you,
Dr.
Jamie Cate at Berkeley does
crystallography.
And he had a large set of
applications for crystallography
that ran on Unix workstations.
And when he left the lab,
he had to basically leave
his research behind.
That's no longer true.
So what he says is Apple's PowerBook G4
and Mac OS X have allowed me to use
the same tools on an airplane on
my way to a conference that I could
only use before my lab workstation.
So for those of you who have not
had the pleasure of a PowerBook and
taking it on a plane and using it,
I'd highly recommend that.
I'm going to spend a little bit of
time talking about 64-bit computing.
So 64-bit computing is not
necessarily for everyone,
but if you have massive data
sets that you need to iterate
over as part of a problem,
you're going to find yourself in
need of a 64-bit address space.
And today, with Panther,
you can put 8 gigabytes
onto an Mac OS X G5 system,
but an individual process can only
use up to 32 bits of address space.
And in fact,
you can probably get up to about
2 gigabytes of address before
things start to bump into limits.
With Tiger,
you will be able to compile and build
a 64-bit address space application.
So we have a 64-bit version of
GCC that will compile 64-bit code.
We have a 64-bit version of LibSystem.
We're taking a staged approach here.
So we did LibSystem first.
So that's LibC and
LibM and other libraries.
Those are converted to be 64-bit
versions of the libraries.
You're compiling against those
libraries when you compile 64-bit.
What you don't have are the
GUIs that you have in the Mac OS X.
You have the library libraries.
So for example, Cocoa has not been,
or Carbon has not been
converted to 64-bit.
So what you will do to leverage
64-bit with Tiger is build a
computational section of your
application as a single process
running in up to 8 gigabytes of memory.
And that process will communicate with a
front end of your application if you have
a need for a graphical user interface.
And certainly on a cluster system,
the code running on the cluster nodes
typically does not have a GUI anyway.
And so that's a great fit.
Eventually in the future,
we'll expand the number
of 64-bit libraries.
But for Tiger, it's confined to LibSystem
and the non-GUI libraries.
And specifically targeted at
scientific computation like very
large modeling and simulation.
Things that really need to have
a full 64-bit address space.
We're using what's called LP64.
That means that longs and pointers
are promoted to be 64-bits.
Integers, int, will stay at 32-bits.
This is the standard for Unix systems.
So if you have 64-bit code running
on other Unix systems or Linux,
it should be easily portable to Mac OS X.
The compiler has been built
to support the 64-bit code.
The compiler has been
outfitted so that it will,
if you turn on warnings,
it will give you a complete set of
warnings if your app is not 64-bit clean.
For example, if you're depending on,
specifically on size of int
or the size of a pointer,
it will flag that for you.
So I highly recommend that
if you have large data sets,
you take a look at the
Tiger preview release.
Try out the compiler.
One caveat to note is that the
binary format for 64-bit apps,
64-bit executables,
will be changing with the
final release of Tiger.
So if you've compiled something
for the preview release,
you will have to recompile
once the final Tiger comes out.
64-bit apps run right
alongside 32-bit apps.
So it's flagged in the executable
whether this is a 64-bit
executable or a 32-bit executable.
In fact,
you can build your apps FAT if you
want so that you can launch either
as a 64-bit app or as a 32-bit app.
Example where this might be useful.
So Vertex Pharmaceuticals,
they use Power Mac G5 to
accelerate their drug development,
which targets viral diseases,
inflammatory diseases, and cancer.
And Tiger is going to allow them
to transition their critical
molecular modeling application.
Which really has 64-bit
addressing requirements.
Transition that to a G5.
And a quote from Joshua Boger,
who's the chairman and CEO.
Mac OS X 64-bit memory management will
allow Vertex to rapidly interact with
huge libraries of chemical structures
and advance our drug discovery process.
Leveraging open source – I can't
stress this enough – we have over 100
open source technologies or projects
that are incorporated into Tiger.
Everything from Apache to Perl to
Python to OpenLDAP to Berkeley DB,
MySQL, JBoss, you name it,
we pretty much have it.
And those packages are included
in the release so that the
code runs out of the box and,
more importantly, when updates come out
from those products,
we incorporate them into
a system update for Mac.
So you get the most recent versions
or the security patches kept
up to date for these projects.
Makes it incredibly easy to use these.
Beyond the ones we package, of course,
there's a huge number – thousands,
really – of open source packages
available from SourceForge or from Fink.
And those applications are basically
– the doubling rate is about doubling
every year in terms of number of open
source projects available on the Mac.
So that's an incredible resource
for you so that you don't
have to reinvent the wheel.
If you need to get something done,
the first thing you should
do with Mac OS X is go look,
see if we've got an open source
package that accomplishes the task
you want to accomplish so you don't
have to write code from scratch.
Kinds of applications.
So the ones available include
things like NCBI Toolkit,
Emboss, PyMol I mentioned earlier,
Globus, WU Blast.
We also have a version of Blast that has
been optimized by Apple and Genentech,
AG Blast, highly optimized for the G5,
Amber.
So a huge number of tools available
out there for scientific computation.
So to summarize the trends we're seeing:
Number one,
huge growth in scientific data.
So you can expect Apple to
continue to focus with products
like XSAN and XSERVE RAID,
continue to focus on providing
cost-effective storage,
very high bandwidth to storage,
clustering for
cost-effective performance,
and that is our strategy.
We have one-use servers.
We don't make huge big iron.
We don't make 64-way SMP.
We are all about optimizing 1U
form factor for building clusters,
making sure that we can give that to
people as inexpensively as possible.
XGrid for building ad hoc clusters.
Strong focus on application optimization.
I mentioned the Shark Tools and Chud.
You can expect to see
additional performance-related
tools coming from Apple.
This is the way to squeeze the
most performance out of your G5.
Make sure you're getting the absolute
most you can get for your application.
Ease of deployment administration.
Out of the box,
turn it on with workgroup bioinformatics
cluster and you've got a cluster under
the desk in your office if you want.
Portable UNIX – I can't stress enough
the productivity gain that you get
from being able to take your entire
lab software with you wherever you go.
64-bit address space – and this is
something that has been requested
from us and we are very pleased
to be able to offer the non-GUI
64-bit app address space with Tiger.
This is an area where please,
if you try it out on a preview release,
please give us your feedback
on what you're finding.
You're the guys that have the 64-bit
apps and we're committed to make
this the best 64-bit system we can.
And then finally,
open standards-based tools development.
There basically is not an open
source tool out there that has not,
at this point, been ported to Mac OS X.
And that's a huge leverage point
for you to not have to read.
you to not have to reinvent the wheel.
So, Apple really, in my mind,
is the best platform for
scientific computing today.
If you look at all the
tools oriented around it,
available on it, the things that we're
doing to enable clustering,
the things that our partners
are doing to enable scientific
computing in a variety of areas,
I really can't point to a system today
that makes a better scientific computer.
So,
Thanks a lot.
I'm going to turn it
over at this point to Dr.
Liz Kerr, and she's the Director of
Scientific Marketing.
She's going to talk about
Apple in the SciTech market.
So, thank you, Liz.
Thanks, Bud.
It's really my pleasure to be
here and it's great to see so
many faces out here this morning.
What I'm going to talk to you about for
the next 20 minutes is how both my team,
the SciTech Marketing team,
and many other groups at Apple are
working towards providing solutions
and awareness out to the market to
help really drive adoption of the
Apple platform for scientific computing.
We really think this is a perfect
solution and we want to help
get that message out there.
One of the most important
aspects of that – oh,
sorry, wrong way.
There we go.
One of the most important aspects of
that is really driving the awareness
and communicating both to our customers
and hearing from our customers.
I'll go through some of the
ways that we're doing that.
One of the most simple ways
is through trade shows.
We've done a number of these
and plan to do more this year.
Bio IT World is one,
and that's what this image is from,
our booth there.
Also ISMB, which is coming up in Glasgow,
Scotland, a big bioinformatics show.
And Drug Discovery Technology,
which is a show that focuses more on
the commercial aspects of science,
biological sciences,
pharmaceutical and biotech.
These shows are really important to
us because they allow us not just the
ability to talk to our current customers,
but to let other people know that
this is an area we're interested in,
and to hear from people who
maybe we don't normally talk to.
Another type of event that we're
doing are focused customer events,
where we actually go to a customer
site and give them hands-on experience
with some of our newer tools.
These events shown in the images were
to promote the Power Mac G5 and the
performance of those computers for
applications in scientific computing.
Another thing we're doing is
focusing on advertising that goes
specifically to our scientists.
This is a little tongue-in-cheek.
Obviously, this isn't an iPod,
and the point isn't that
we're focused away from that,
but just that in many cases,
our consumer advertising
overtakes what our scientists see,
and they don't think of us
as a company that maybe makes
computers that are really specific
for the scientific market.
So, this is an example of an
advertisement that's currently
running in both peer-reviewed trade
journals like Science and Nature,
as well as magazines like
The Scientist and Genome Technology.
And it really is a great ad because
it focuses specifically on the
Power Mac G5 and customers talking
about why it's great for their use.
We're also doing some online advertising.
This is another great way to reach people
who maybe don't normally think of Apple,
and this is an online ad for
the workgroup cluster for
bioinformatics that Bud alluded to.
We'll talk a little bit more
about this solution later.
Another thing that we're really
please about is launching a science
website on apple.com/science.
This is the homepage.
This is really geared towards
up-leveling all that information
that's more technical and more geared
towards both our scientific developers
and our scientific customers so that
they can find sort of a home for that
information and find it more easily.
We have lots of downloads and
focus on both Apple solutions as
well as our third-party solutions.
We also have success stories that
focus on how customers are using
Apple products as examples and to
serve as an example for people who are
interested in how they might use our
technology to help solve their problems.
This is just a blow-up because
what I'm going to do is focus in
on a couple of these areas and dig
down a little bit just to show you
what type of information is there.
So in the upper right-hand corner,
we're going to look at the
applications for research.
I wanted to point this one out because
this is where most of the information
from third-party developers and open
source developers live on the website.
So we've got featured applications
on this part of the web to raise
awareness for particular applications,
and this rotates on a regular basis,
so we don't play favorites or anything.
We try to give everybody a chance
to focus on their applications.
There's also the
Macintosh Products Guide,
which is the comprehensive list
of all the applications that are
available that run on Mac OS X,
both scientific and otherwise.
There's also a download section,
so if you find an application
you're interested in or somebody
wants to download your application,
for example, they can go to either the
math and science part or the
open source and Unix part,
and all these have
specific download sections.
So another part of this
that's interesting,
I think, is the resource section.
And here we have it broken
down into different categories.
So if you are looking for a
particular type of information,
for example, high performance computing
or software development,
there's a part for Darwin resources,
third party products.
There are mailing lists and community.
So if you're interested in joining a
mailing list or a community to discuss
your challenges or throw something
out there and get a response back,
that's right there.
And there's also a lot of
links to technical information.
You can see-- maybe you can't
see-- on the right hand side,
where you can download PDFs
about the Apple technology.
We also have been doing what we call
SciTech initiatives and solutions and
also I want to talk a little bit about
how we're judging the momentum that
we're getting in the scientific market.
So one of the cornerstones of
this is the Apple Workgroup
Cluster for Bioinformatics.
We're really,
really pleased with this because
it really ties together the highly
technical aspects of what we're
providing to the scientific marketplace,
plus the ease of use
that Apple's known for.
And the idea is,
I think as Bud alluded to,
is to take the setting up the computer
cluster out of the hands of the
scientists and make it just really easy.
Make it so that they can have
the compute power without having
to know how to manage a cluster,
how to code in Linux,
how to do any of that.
This is geared to be something
they can take out of the box,
set up themselves,
and have it running in no time.
We announced this at Macworld in January,
and we were really pleased that
it won the Best in Show award at
BioIT World for IT Infrastructure.
We're just really proud of that,
and I think it really speaks to how the
scientific community is viewing this.
It's really being adopted for many uses.
I mean,
it's a bioinformatics workgroup cluster,
but people are using it
for biological research.
They're also using it for
application development.
And interestingly,
they're using it to develop
curriculum and teaching programs for
bioinformatics at the university level.
Just a couple examples.
This one's from the
Naval Medical Research Lab.
Dr.
Michael Schutt is using his workgroup
cluster for bioterrorism research.
And he installed and
maintained this himself.
He has no computer science
background whatsoever.
His favorite thing is to say
all he needed was a screwdriver,
and he was able to set the
whole thing up himself.
He had it up and running in 30 minutes.
They really like the security
aspect of this cluster because,
of course,
they're working on something that's very
critical to the security of the country.
They also liked having the applications
which come with the workgroup
cluster with the web-based interface.
They liked having the accessibility
of that without having to know
command line because a lot of bench
scientists don't know how to do that.
And it's much easier for them to
have a familiar GUI interface.
The other thing about the workgroup
cluster which a lot of our customers
like and which is one of the things
that was a deciding factor for the
Naval Medical Research Center is
the scalability of the cluster.
You can always add to this.
If you find that your
eight nodes isn't enough,
you can double that or add two
more nodes or whatever you need.
Another example is from
Idaho State University.
Dr.
Mike Thomas set out to
design a bioinformatics
curriculum for the university.
They bought a five-no-workgroup cluster.
What happened was they set it up so much
faster than they had planned that they
were able to offer their bioinformatics
course an entire semester early.
The other thing that he had done,
he had hired a person,
a headcount to manage the cluster.
But once it was set
up and it was running,
the guy had nothing to do.
Because it was just
going and it was working.
So they reassigned this person 75%
of his time to do something else.
So they're using this to teach the
very first course in bioinformatics
at Idaho State University.
A quote from him which talks a little
bit about how this bleeds over into
other areas of the university is,
"I think the cluster is going to have a
huge effect in our research environment,
and I think it will help scientists here
generate additional funding." So he sees
this as a way of other scientists at the
university referring to this resource
and being able to hopefully boost up
the value of their grant applications.
So, one of the things we did to raise
the awareness of this solution,
the Workgroup Cluster for Bioinformatics,
out to the marketplace is,
with my team and the
Higher Education Marketing team,
put together a Workgroup
Cluster Awards program to
recognize innovation in research.
The goal was to give away five
fully-provisioned clusters with
four dual-processor XSERVE G5s
with 2 gigs of RAM in each.
Comes with the software included,
the BioTeam inquiry package with
over 200 informatics applications.
All the hardware infrastructure,
the power supply, the cables, etc.
and AppleCare support for three years.
This is a great thing to win.
The applicants were tremendous.
We had hundreds of applications
come in from all over the US and
we were just blown away by the
quality and the time and effort
people took to put these together.
And from all aspects of research,
from higher ed, government, non-profit,
as well as commercial customers.
I hope it's not pink on the
screen because it's pink there.
Okay, we'll go with pink.
So first I'd like to say,
of the hundreds, we picked five winners,
but we also picked five
honorable mentions because,
again, the quality of these was so
incredible that we felt we wanted
to extend the acknowledgement to
at least ten of the applicants.
So just very quickly,
these are the five honorable mentions.
The first from University of
Washington where they're
doing HIV evolution research.
At Yale University, Dr.
Kevin White doing genomic
research on model organisms.
Caltech, Dr.
Barbara Wald doing gene
regulatory networks.
At University of Pennsylvania, Dr.
David Ruse and colleagues are studying
parasites and genomics of parasites.
And at the Institute for
Genomic Research,
or TIGER, Dr.
John Quackenbush is doing
all kinds of things,
but also software development and
a lot of genomic database work.
So now to the very pink winners
for the Work Loop Cruster Awards.
The first one on the list,
and these are not in the order of first,
second, third, fourth, or fifth.
They're all winners.
UCLA, Dr.
Christopher Lee for doing
work in comparative genomics,
an incredible application,
incredible project.
At Duke University, Dr.
Simon Lin who is representing a group
of scientists doing oncology research,
an enormously extensible
project that he's looking at.
And, and a project that he's looking
at doing with lots of software
development that would be used by the
entire oncology research community.
At MIT, we have to have Dr.
Edward DeLong for environmental
microbial genomics,
a really interesting topic, very unique.
And then,
and at University of Wisconsin,
Mike Newton, Dr.
Mike Newton,
he's developing statistical techniques
for genomic research to really – it's
like a light show – genomic research to
really expand the types of algorithms
and such that people can use for that.
And then finally,
at Children's Hospital in Oakland,
the research institute there, Dr.
Deborah Dean is doing really,
really state-of-the-art
chlamydia genomics research,
much more in the healthcare area.
So those are our five winners of
the Apple Workgroup Cluster Awards,
and I'd like to just stop here
and give a round of applause to
all the applicants and winners.
Okay, moving right along.
And just talking again about
the momentum and awareness,
we have gotten an enormous
amount of press coverage,
both from this awards program,
but really primarily starting when
we launched the workgroup cluster for
bioinformatics and started showing
up at things like BioIT World.
And it's been really
nice to see the press,
both the Mac trade press as well as
more general press and scientific press,
really want to hear what Apple's
doing in this space and paying
attention to the efforts we're
making to provide really great
solutions to our scientific customers.
I want to turn a little bit to talk
about the developers and some of the
work that you all have been doing.
I think the amount of the number
of new applications that have come
on to Mac OS X and continue to come
on to Mac OS X is overwhelming.
The list just keeps growing.
These are four that are relatively new,
either updated or new to the platform.
From the chemical computing group,
we have the molecular
operating environment,
or as we like to call it, Mo.
MATLAB 7.
An enormously popular program for
our physical science customers.
GeoSPEZA is a company that does
the Finch Sequencing Center,
a great tool for
managing sequencing labs.
And GeneCodes with Sequencer,
another really popular program
for managing DNA sequence data.
What really drives that, I think,
is the amount of developer support
that our worldwide developer
group provides to our scientific
developers as well as others.
And I just wanted to highlight a few
things that are really important to me.
I think the first thing that I want
to talk about is the number of
software development tools that we
have on offer for our developers.
There are,
at the Apple Developer Connection,
software development tools,
hardware support,
technical support and services,
as well as business services,
and that kind of moves back
into my area a little bit,
but co-marketing programs
and program discounts.
This is a blow-up.
I'm not sure how well you can see that,
but this is what, especially now,
this is what you would see for a
particular application on our website,
and it just is a nice highlight with
a description of the program and
information about where they get it,
who the company is that makes it,
or the individual.
These all live on
apple.com slash science.
They also are all in the
Macintosh Products Guide.
We do press release support for
developers that are doing a big release.
We'll help with promoting that.
This year,
at all of our scientific conferences,
we're inviting partners,
specific partners,
to join us in our booth to help show
the solution of Apple hardware and
Mac OS X with some of the key scientific
applications for that particular
audience that we're addressing.
And then success stories.
Excuse me.
We're not just doing success
stories of our customers,
but we really want to focus on
how our developers are using
Mac OS X for examples for other
scientific developers to look at and
use as examples for their own work.
So I'll finish here,
and this is a quote that came off the ad,
which I'm sure you couldn't see
because the type was so small,
from Dr.
Sean Morrison at University of Michigan.
He said, "The Power Mac G5 is the fastest
computer I have ever used.
I can have eight different
memory-intensive applications
open on my desktop at the same
time with no problems whatsoever.
In my personal opinion,
the system is so reliable, user-friendly,
and powerful that I don't understand
why people endure PCs." Now,
yes.
I think I'd like to just close by saying
what's not really covered there is really
the key of matching the really powerful
hardware and operating system that
Apple makes with the really incredible
applications that our developers provide.
Because those things have to
go hand in hand to provide the
right solution to our scientists.
And I feel like it's just so
tremendous to see the people here
really focused on developing and
working towards scientific apps,
maybe just for personal use,
but also for commercial use.
Because I really believe that those
two things together really make
the solution that help address the
needs of our scientific community.
So with that, I would like to introduce
our next speaker.
Chen Peng is from the Temasek
Life Science Institute Laboratory in
Singapore.
They have a 75-node XServe cluster.
It's the largest cluster
currently in Asia,
Apple cluster in Asia.
And he both installed it and managed it.
And he's going to tell you
all about his work there.
Please welcome him.
Thank you, Elizabeth.
Good morning, everyone.
It's my pleasure to be here to
share with you our experience of
building and using the XServe cluster
for bioinformatics in Termasac
Life Science Laboratory in Singapore.
So our group is involved in creating
a computational biology division
that will focus on comparing
DNA between different species.
Our current research project is the
genome annotation of a C-squared
species and the study of non-coding
regions across co-ordinated genomes.
In parallel to the annotation project,
we are furthering the development
of a workflow management software,
BioPipe, to suit our large-scale,
cluster-based computational
needs and smaller workflows
suited for other projects in TLL.
Inside TLL,
we work actively with other scientists
to provide computational biology support.
For instance,
we work with a lab of reproductive
genomes on the automation of filtering,
clustering, and annotation of in-house
generated sequence data.
its integration with public databases.
The foremost large-scale project we are
doing is sooner-savvy genome annotation.
The genome size of the C-squared
encrusted gene has been estimated
to 360 million bases with
approximately 15,000 genes.
The 400 million bases of raw data
delivered from SequenceLab is
organized into 66,000 continuous reads.
We typically run a series of programs,
including some well-known algorithms like
BLAST and in-house-developed solutions to
analyze each of the 66 sequence pieces.
Each analysis program generally
takes somewhere between five
minutes to two hours to complete.
As large amounts of data has to be
passed from hard disk to memory,
the data I/O speed is
extremely important for us.
So for the annotation project,
we need to set up a cluster that can meet
our requirements as listed in the slides.
So the cluster must be able to
deliver tremendous computational power
It should be easy to install and
ready to extend for the future.
And we require high-quality hardware
and robust operating systems that
allow most of the bioinformatics
tools to run without any problem.
In addition, these applications should be
optimized to achieve the best
performance on that platform.
We also require sophisticated software
to manage distributed resources and
thousands of computational jobs.
And finally, the hardware and software
solution must be cost-effective.
This is the Xserve
cluster we built in 2003.
It has 75 Xserve units
running Mac OS X server.
Each Xserve unit has dual G4 processors,
2 GB memory, fast disk storage,
and Gigabit Ethernet.
Our cluster hosts more
than 20 TB disk storage,
and the cluster nodes are
managed by platform LSF.
So, with the help from BioTeam and Apple,
we figured out a way to conduct
a mass rapid installation.
We put up an Xserve unit from
an external hard disk which
contained a pre-built disk image.
During the boot-up period,
a script automatically restored
the image and built the operating
system on the local storage.
We paralleled the installation with
four external hard disks and set up the
64 cluster nodes within three hours.
So Mac OS X is a BSD-based
operating system,
and we feel it is very friendly to
the bioinformatics tools originally
designed for Linux or UNIX.
This slide shows the bioinformatics
tools available in our cluster.
Most of the tools are compiled
directly from source code by ourselves.
Although some of them need to be
modified a little to cope with the
difference between BSD and the Linux,
it is not difficult if you have
some experience with C programming.
After the basic system is up,
we spend a lot of time to
optimize the performance.
So, as explained in the previous slides,
we focus on improving data I/O speed.
For each Xserve node,
we strive the two local hard
disks to build a RAID 0 set,
so that it provides 240 GB local
storage at an average speed of 66 MB/s.
We store most of the blast database
locally on each node to reduce
NFS traffic and connect all the
XServe units in gigabit Ethernet.
On software level,
we engage to find the MPI-enabled
version to replace the normal version.
If the application itself
supports multi-CPU execution,
we instruct the users to
run with prop options.
For example,
to specify -A for NCBI blast so
that it runs in multi-threaded mode.
In addition to these efforts,
we also optimize at the compiler level.
With proper GCC options,
a lot of bioinformatics tools can speed
up by about 40% if they were originally
made with the default configuration.
Different from other
simple biology analyses,
our C-squared genome annotation
involves running a series of programs
for each of the 66 sequence pieces.
Each step of the analysis must
be automated so that the entire
process won't stop in the middle.
BioPipe is an open-source workflow
management software maintained
by the OpenBio community.
It was designed to address
some of the complex issues in
large-scale biology analysis.
Our group contributed to that
project and used BioPipe to manage
our genome annotation project.
BioPipe is entirely written in Perl,
and Mac OS X Developer Tools CD provides
all the necessary tools
we needed for development.
This screenshot shows the job
status in our cluster in April 2004.
There are more than 40,000 jobs in
the queue and over 100 are running.
This is the situation we need
to deal with almost every day.
We use platform LSF to manage
the thousands of jobs generated
by BioPipe effectively.
LSF is the most robust
distributed resource management
software we have ever used.
With Mac OS X server and LSF,
we are able to perform
large-scale biogenesis without
worrying about system stability.
Setting up the cluster
is a one-time task,
and maintenance is the
administrator's everyday work.
Luckily,
we have a few effective tools that help
us a lot in daily system administration.
One tool I would like to
mention is Server Monitor.
It took us only two hours to set up the
Server Monitor so that it provides an
overview for all the 75 XServe units.
We only need to configure the
monitoring server with the
IP address of each cluster node.
The server monitor retrieves
all the important hardware
information for us in a few seconds.
If we were using other UNIX systems,
the administrator would have to manually
log into each node for configuration,
which would take much longer to complete.
The server monitor also features a
hard disk profaner walling that is
very useful for us to quickly identify
the disk with potential problems.
We also use the server monitor
to collect per-node information,
such as serial number or MAC address
for each network adapter.
Another important GUI tool is
Apple Remote Desktop that enables
the administrator to operate a
remote machine as if it is local.
This tool is neat for headless Xserve,
especially the new Xserve G5,
without a VGA card.
The most charming feature of
Apple Remote Desktop is the
ability to install software
packages by drag-and-drop
simultaneously on multiple nodes.
We find this feature extremely
useful for us when doing
cluster-wide system upgrades.
We are able to update the 64-cluster node
to a newer version within 30 minutes.
Our previous experience of managing
a similar-sized alpha system involves
doing updates from command line,
and it took us at least a
half day for the same task.
There are other command line
tools we use frequently to
facilitate cluster management.
We are glad to find that Panther has
great support for command line tools.
Almost every GUI application has its
command line interface accordingly.
Just to mention a few of my favorites:
SSH is used to log into
the remote node every day.
Bash has been set as default in Panther.
R-Sync is the core utility
for data synchronization,
we use DSH for distributed share.
So to summarize our experience
with XSERV Cluster in TRL.
Basically the XSERV unit provides
superior computational power we expected.
The cluster was quickly set up,
and we are able to run and optimize
most of the bioinformatic tools.
The entire cluster is robust for
our genome annotation project,
and the daily administrative work
is made easy with sophisticated
Mac OS X monitoring tools and
open source command line tools.
Thank you.
Well, thank you very much.
And I'm just going to point out
a few places you can get more
information while we're bringing some
of the Apple people up here for Q&A.
And in terms of questions,
if you could please use the microphones
if you've got any questions.
And in terms of contacts, Liz,
Robert Kerr,
our Science Partnership Manager,
and Elias Stupka,
for TLL Bioinformatics Program Manager,
or Chen Peng, Senior System Engineer.
Other resources,
Liz mentioned the website.
There's the Apple Science websites.
And other related sessions
you may be interested in,
I just want to mention specifically
the Science Lounge on the fourth floor.
You should check that out.
There's going to be roundtable
discussions ongoing throughout
the conference there.
All right.
So let's take the first
question over here.